MUTAGEN version 4.*
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Due to some bad design decisions in the first version of MUTAGEN,
parts of the system are really bad and all major revisions of the code
have only fixed some of the problems but not all, so this is the first
real rewrite of *ALL* the code, so hopefully this time it will be done
right.                                     
                                               3/11 - 2003 Kim Brugger


MODULES
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

The system relies on sharing several modules, each module might be
divided into other sub-modules, but if two places share a part of code
this will most likely be integrated into a module. During the design
of the system, I have tried to build a stable and solid set of
functions divided into several logical modules to ease further
development. The "atomic" modules have been divided as such:

html        -
graphics    -
db          -
core        -

Based on the functionality of these modules several other modules have
been created.

html::page



DATABASE
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

The database have been restructured actually I do not think that there
is not a single table that did not need altering, so it has been done,
and so it will be. The interface to the database I have tried to
conserve, but some of the functions have gotten new parameters to
limit the amount of data that is transfered from the database.


NEW FEATURES
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

All the blast reports can either be compressed or placed as normal
files, but due to the shear volume this takes it is possible to
compress them, an other possibility is to place them in the
database. It is possible to compress them and then base64 encode them
using MIME::base64, this will also ensure that report files are present.

The database have also been extended, so it is now possible to use
several gene-finders. This has been done to ensure that all the genes
have been identified, and helps to identify the correct start codon
for all genes.

Comparative reports, it is possible to compare the genes found in a
genome against other genomes, so it becomes possible to identify
unique genes, and genes share between two or more organisms. These
genes will be categorised according to the scheme used in COG. This
allows to alter the categories if they where predicted wrongly by COG,
and still be able to make the nice statistics and gene grouping.

The common databases that all the installations can now be installed
in a common place, making it possible to share these databases and
thus use less disk space.

This time it will also be possible to like external programs to the
system, and the system will respond accordingly, so only if the
program is installed will the system display the possibility the
program provides. One of the programs that will be used are
responsible for creating primers for PCR.

Automatic update, the system page will be much more comprehensive
allowing for the automatic update of the databases and automatic
searches against new databases. It will also be possible to be
notified by the system when a hit occurs against ones protein of
interest.

Continue sessions, if a user have been logged out automatically it is
possible to continue the session again later.

Users do not have to be logged in to the system for using it, this can
of cause be altered so users have to login, but the main bar have the
possibility for logging in or out the full time while showing as what
person one is logged in as.

Each installation have it own log, where errors are logged to, so the
system does not clobber the apache log, and it is easier to debug if
having several systems installed.

Each sequence, and all the data belonging to it are protected by
groups, so only users being members of a specific group are allowed to
use specific sequences and all the data that belong to it.

The colours used for displaying cluster information should be kept
even after database updates. This should be done so if two clusters
are joined into one, then the largest previous cluster will determine
the colour.

